# Lesson 16: Progressive Web App Authentication

In order for the user to be able to log in and manage their todo lists our progressive web app will need to be able to authenticate with our REST API. There are actually several ways to do this. We could use session authentication, token authentication, or OAuth2 for example. Since our web interface uses session authentication and OAuth2 is a more complex form of authentication, we will use token authentication for our progressive web app. We will be using `djangorestframework-simplejwt` to handle token authentication for us. Let's start by configuring it. Open `simple_todo/simple_todo/settings.py` and modify your REST framework settings like this:
```python
# REST framework
REST_FRAMEWORK = {
    "DEFAULT_PAGINATION_CLASS": "rest_framework.pagination.PageNumberPagination",
    "PAGE_SIZE": 10,
    "DEFAULT_AUTHENTICATION_CLASSES": [
        "rest_framework.authentication.SessionAuthentication",
        "rest_framework_simplejwt.authentication.JWTAuthentication"
    ]
}
```

We include session authentication first so that we can still use the API documentation pages generated by Django REST Framework to test our REST API. Next we need to create a new app for our REST API by executing the following command:
```sh
python manage.py startapp todo_list_api_v1
```

Notice that we added "_v1" to the end of the name. Having a version tag like this will allow us to have multiple versions of the same REST API if we ever need to. Now we need to create `simple_todo/todo_list_api_v1/urls.py` with the following content:
```python
from django.urls import include, path
from rest_framework_simplejwt.views import (
    TokenObtainPairView,
    TokenRefreshView
)


urlpatterns = [
    path("auth/", include("rest_framework.urls")),
    path("token/", TokenObtainPairView.as_view(), name="token_obtain_pair"),
    path("token/refresh/", TokenRefreshView.as_view(), name="token_refresh")
]
```

The first URL pattern is used for authentication on the API documentation pages. The second URL pattern is used to obtain an access token and refresh token by logging in. The third URL pattern is used to obtain a new access token once the access token has expired. Next we need to modify our `simple_todo/simple_todo/urls.py` file like this:
```python
from django.contrib import admin
from django.urls import include, path

urlpatterns = [
    path("", include("todo_list.urls")),
    path("accounts/", include("accounts.urls")),
    path("api/v1/", include("todo_list_api_v1.urls")),
    path('admin/', admin.site.urls),
]
```

Now if you visit [token api docs](http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/token/) in a web browser, you should see this page:
*screenshot*

This page can be used to log in to obtain an access token and a refresh token. You can also obtain them by sending an HTTP POST request to the same URL with a JSON payload containing the username and password. The access token will expire after a while, but you can obtain a new one via [token refresh api docs](http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/token/refresh/):
*screenshot*

You can also obtain a new access token by sending an HTTP POST request to the same URL with a JSON payload containing the refresh token.
